dartabase_model/README.md, before:

Dartabase Model 0.4.0
===================

    Serverside Database Object Models for simple data manipulation
    with MySQL/PGSQL
    inspired by Ruby on Rails models
    
    This requires the use of 'Dartabase Miration' in your project
    see http://pub.dartlang.org/packages/dartabase_migration
     
    Version
    	0.4.0 -adapted model for migration 0.4.0 see compatibility below
    	0.3.0 -fixed possible crash in < 0.3.0 with mysql adapter, 
    	      -changed model method_names to methodNames (Dart Style Guide)
    	0.2.1 -added delete function to remove object from database 
    	0.2.0 -added support for autogenerated created_at and updated_at columns 
    		   see changelog for dartabase migration 0.3.0 
    	0.1.1 -fix discription
	    0.1.0 -ready for Dart 1.0

	Tested on 
		Dart Editor version 1.0.1_r30657 (DEV)
		Dart SDK version 1.0.1.3_r30657
		
	Compatibility
		depending on the migration version you are using 
		you have to use a differend model version in your app
	    
	    migration  			model
	    -------------------------
	    0.4.x	requires    0.4.x
	    0.3.0	requires	0.3.0 deprecated!!
	
	Uses
    	MYSQL via http://pub.dartlang.org/packages/sqljocky version 0.9.0
    	PGSQL via http://pub.dartlang.org/packages/postgresql version 0.2.12

HOW TO SETUP
------------
    After you have sucessfully finished setting up 'Dartabase Migration' 
    1. Install Dartabase Model the usual pubspec way 
    
    2. Inside your project, at the beginning of the main method insert
        
        Model.initiate("path-to-your-project");

		now it should look kinda like this:
		
			-----dataserver.dart--START--
		
			library dataServer;
	
			import 'package:dartabase_model/dartabase_model.dart';
	
			main(){
			  Model.initiate("C:\\darttestproject\\DartabaseServer");
			  ... your code
			}
		
			-----dataserver.dart--END--
	
	3. Imagine you have ONLY created one database table named 'account' 
	   with the column 'name'
	
	4. You have to extend all classes that you want to connected to the database
	   with 'Model'
	   
	   in this case we create a class Account with id, name and a counter
	   
			-----account.dart--START--
		
			part of dataServer;
		
			class Account extends Model{
			  num id;		
			  String name;
			  num counter;
			}
		
			-----account.dart--END--

	5. Now add account.dart as part to dataServer so you can access Account
	   obviously when you have everything in the same file,
	   you dont need 'part' and 'part_of' 
	
			-----dataserver.dart--START--
		
			library dataServer;
	
			import 'package:dartabase_model/dartabase_model.dart';
			part "account.dart";	
			
			main(){
			  Model.initiate("C:\\darttestproject\\DartabaseServer");
			  ... your code
			}
		
			-----dataserver.dart--END--
	 

*******************************************************************************************
HOW TO USE
----------

	1. Saving data
	
	  //simple async save call
	
	  Account account = new Account();
	  account.name="dartabase";
	  account.id=1;
	  account.counter=0;
	  account.save();
	  
	  this will create a new database entry inside account 
	  with column name = "dartabase" and increment "id"
	  
	  NOTE: 'id' wont be saved since it is controlled by Dartabase Migration
	        'counter' wont be saved inside the database 
	                  since it is not represented in the account table.
	  
	2. Loading data async
	
	  simple find single element call - returns a single account object
		  
		  Account accountRequest = new Account();
		  accountRequest.findById(1).then((account){
		    print("single#${account.name}");	// prints 'dartabase'
		  })
	  
	  simple find many elements call - returns a list of account objects
	   
		  Account accountRequest = new Account();
		  accountfromDB.findAllBy('name','dartabase').then((list){
	        for(var loadedAccount in list){
	      		print("${account.id}${account.name}"); // prints '${id}dartabase'
	        }
	      })
	  
	  NOTE:the result is not returned inside the requestObject, but inside the then
	      
    3. Complex find
       when you want to find an entry with more than one condition curently you can use 
    	
    	  Future find(String sql, bool resultAsList)
    	  
    	  where you provide a normal sql query as a String and tell the function 
    	  
    	  'true' returns a list of elements 
    	  'false' returns the first of the found elements
    	  
    	  
       other available find functions are currently
      
	      Future findBy(String column, var value) 
	  
	4. Delete
	   To remove an object from the database simply write
	   
	      Account accountRequest = new Account();
		  accountRequest.findById(13).then((account){
		    account.delete();
	      })
		
	WORKING EXAMPLE:
	
		-----dataserver.dart--START--
	
			library gameServer;
	
			import 'package:dartabase_model/dartabase_model.dart';
			import 'dart:async';
			part "account.dart";
			
			void main() {
			  Model.initiate("C:\\darttestproject\\DartabaseGameServer");
			  
			  account.username="username1";
			  account.name="name";
			  account.id=9;
			  account.charname="charname1";
			  account.save().then((isSaved){
    
			    Account accountfromDB = new Account();
			    accountfromDB.findById(1).then((account){
			      print("single#${account.toString()}");
			    }).then((_){
			        accountfromDB.findAllBy("name","name").then((list){
			          for(var loadedAccount in list){
			            print("List#${loadedAccount.toString()}");
			          }
			          list[1].delete().then((result){
			          print("deleted");
			          Account account = new Account();
			          
			          account.username="username2";
			          account.name="name";
			          account.id=8;
			          account.charname="charname2";
			          account.save().then((isSaved){
			            accountfromDB.findAllBy("name","name").then((list){
			              for(var loadedAccount in list){
			                print("List#${loadedAccount.toString()}");
			              }
			            });
			          });
			        });
			      });
			    });
			  });
			}
				
		-----dataserver.dart--END--
		  
	  
	  	

*******************************************************************************************

TODO
----

	*wait for 'await' to make this baby sync
	*test functionality in bigger project
    *add more features
    *add examples code to git
    *add automated tests
    *and much more

Please let me know about bugs you find and or improvements/features you would like to see in future.

ENJOY & BE NICE ;)

Commit message:

update model to 0.4.1
adapted model to work with old and new migration files

dartabase_model/README.md, after:

Dartabase Model 0.4.1
===================

    Serverside Database Object Models for simple data manipulation
    with MySQL/PGSQL
    inspired by Ruby on Rails models
    
    This requires the use of 'Dartabase Miration' in your project
    see http://pub.dartlang.org/packages/dartabase_migration
     
    Version
    	0.4.1 -adapted model to work with old and new migration files
    	0.4.0 -adapted model for migration 0.4.0 see compatibility below
    	0.3.0 -fixed possible crash in < 0.3.0 with mysql adapter, 
    	      -changed model method_names to methodNames (Dart Style Guide)
    	0.2.1 -added delete function to remove object from database 
    	0.2.0 -added support for autogenerated created_at and updated_at columns 
    		   see changelog for dartabase migration 0.3.0 
    	0.1.1 -fix discription
	    0.1.0 -ready for Dart 1.0

	Tested on 
		Dart Editor version 1.0.1_r30657 (DEV)
		Dart SDK version 1.0.1.3_r30657
		
	Compatibility
		depending on the migration version you are using 
		you have to use a differend model version in your app
	    
	    migration  			model
	    -------------------------
	    0.4.x	requires    0.4.x
	    0.3.0	requires	0.3.0 deprecated!!
	
	Uses
    	MYSQL via http://pub.dartlang.org/packages/sqljocky version 0.9.0
    	PGSQL via http://pub.dartlang.org/packages/postgresql version 0.2.12

HOW TO SETUP
------------
    After you have sucessfully finished setting up 'Dartabase Migration' 
    1. Install Dartabase Model the usual pubspec way 
    
    2. Inside your project, at the beginning of the main method insert
        
        Model.initiate("path-to-your-project");

		now it should look kinda like this:
		
			-----dataserver.dart--START--
		
			library dataServer;
	
			import 'package:dartabase_model/dartabase_model.dart';
	
			main(){
			  Model.initiate("C:\\darttestproject\\DartabaseServer");
			  ... your code
			}
		
			-----dataserver.dart--END--
	
	3. Imagine you have ONLY created one database table named 'account' 
	   with the column 'name'
	
	4. You have to extend all classes that you want to connected to the database
	   with 'Model'
	   
	   in this case we create a class Account with id, name and a counter
	   
			-----account.dart--START--
		
			part of dataServer;
		
			class Account extends Model{
			  num id;		
			  String name;
			  num counter;
			}
		
			-----account.dart--END--

	5. Now add account.dart as part to dataServer so you can access Account
	   obviously when you have everything in the same file,
	   you dont need 'part' and 'part_of' 
	
			-----dataserver.dart--START--
		
			library dataServer;
	
			import 'package:dartabase_model/dartabase_model.dart';
			part "account.dart";	
			
			main(){
			  Model.initiate("C:\\darttestproject\\DartabaseServer");
			  ... your code
			}
		
			-----dataserver.dart--END--
	 

*******************************************************************************************
HOW TO USE
----------

	1. Saving data
	
	  //simple async save call
	
	  Account account = new Account();
	  account.name="dartabase";
	  account.id=1;
	  account.counter=0;
	  account.save();
	  
	  this will create a new database entry inside account 
	  with column name = "dartabase" and increment "id"
	  
	  NOTE: 'id' wont be saved since it is controlled by Dartabase Migration
	        'counter' wont be saved inside the database 
	                  since it is not represented in the account table.
	  
	2. Loading data async
	
	  simple find single element call - returns a single account object
		  
		  Account accountRequest = new Account();
		  accountRequest.findById(1).then((account){
		    print("single#${account.name}");	// prints 'dartabase'
		  })
	  
	  simple find many elements call - returns a list of account objects
	   
		  Account accountRequest = new Account();
		  accountfromDB.findAllBy('name','dartabase').then((list){
	        for(var loadedAccount in list){
	      		print("${account.id}${account.name}"); // prints '${id}dartabase'
	        }
	      })
	  
	  NOTE:the result is not returned inside the requestObject, but inside the then
	      
    3. Complex find
       when you want to find an entry with more than one condition curently you can use 
    	
    	  Future find(String sql, bool resultAsList)
    	  
    	  where you provide a normal sql query as a String and tell the function 
    	  
    	  'true' returns a list of elements 
    	  'false' returns the first of the found elements
    	  
    	  
       other available find functions are currently
      
	      Future findBy(String column, var value) 
	  
	4. Delete
	   To remove an object from the database simply write
	   
	      Account accountRequest = new Account();
		  accountRequest.findById(13).then((account){
		    account.delete();
	      })
		
	WORKING EXAMPLE:
	
		-----dataserver.dart--START--
	
			library gameServer;
	
			import 'package:dartabase_model/dartabase_model.dart';
			import 'dart:async';
			part "account.dart";
			
			void main() {
			  Model.initiate("C:\\darttestproject\\DartabaseGameServer");
			  
			  account.username="username1";
			  account.name="name";
			  account.id=9;
			  account.charname="charname1";
			  account.save().then((isSaved){
    
			    Account accountfromDB = new Account();
			    accountfromDB.findById(1).then((account){
			      print("single#${account.toString()}");
			    }).then((_){
			        accountfromDB.findAllBy("name","name").then((list){
			          for(var loadedAccount in list){
			            print("List#${loadedAccount.toString()}");
			          }
			          list[1].delete().then((result){
			          print("deleted");
			          Account account = new Account();
			          
			          account.username="username2";
			          account.name="name";
			          account.id=8;
			          account.charname="charname2";
			          account.save().then((isSaved){
			            accountfromDB.findAllBy("name","name").then((list){
			              for(var loadedAccount in list){
			                print("List#${loadedAccount.toString()}");
			              }
			            });
			          });
			        });
			      });
			    });
			  });
			}
				
		-----dataserver.dart--END--
		  
	  
	  	

*******************************************************************************************

TODO
----

	*wait for 'await' to make this baby sync
	*test functionality in bigger project
    *add more features
    *add examples code to git
    *add automated tests
    *and much more

Please let me know about bugs you find and or improvements/features you would like to see in future.

ENJOY & BE NICE ;)
